---
toc: true
layout: post
description: How to overcome Fear of Failure and Status Quo
categories: [writing]
title: How to overcome Fear of Failure and Status Quo
---
# How to overcome Fear of Failure and Status Quo

It’s easy to get caught up in the moment and not take into account the long-term implications of our actions. As a result, we end up making decisions that are out of balance, risky, and/or unwise. These days, so many people are Feeling Frustrated and its Payback Time!! You see, as much as we want to believe that life is fair and level playing field, there’s actually a dark side to every success story. When you search for reasons to be successful and ignore the opportunities available to you, you end up feeling like a pawn in a game of chess rather than an active participant in your own destiny. Effort doesn’t always produce reward; habits do not necessarily evolve over time; and setbacks do not automatically mean that one’s failed miserably. Fear of Failure & undefeatable status quo prevail! This advice should give you plenty of courage to put your failures behind you and take action on behalf of yourself and those around you. Here is how:

Step 1: Define Your Priorities
When we first come together as a team, each one of us has different priorities. As time passes, these will become more or less the same. However, when we first get together, each of us has the potential to prioritize even more than the next. As we get closer to our goals, our priorities will diverge. To avoid this, it is helpful to first define our priorities. This will help you avoid “falling into the trap of priorities” as many people do: “falling” into the trap of priorities can lead to distrust and a feeling of " shame " for one's self for even trying to do what one has a " primary " priority " on behalf of the team. The primary priority is your highest priority. You will fall into the trap of priorities only if you do not initially understand why certain priorities are relevant and others are not. This allows you to avoid being " consumed " by the emotions of a "rush" and get back to the " Balancing Act " of prioritizing.

Step 2: Set Up a Belief Process
Even though we all have different priorities, it is helpful to have a specific belief system we are “bound” by. This is perhaps the single most important step you can take to ensure that you “set up” your priorities correctly. In order to “set” your priorities, you must first have a “belief” in them. If you do not yet have a “belief” in your priorities, it is very unlikely that you will be successful in the long run. If you do not have any ‘‘customer expectations” for your priorities, you will have a difficult time aligning them with your “open-minded” and “open-hearted” nature. This means that you will likely fail miserably. In order to “set” your priorities correctly, you must first have a “customer expectations” for them. It is important to understand your “customer” and “open-minded” nature before you can begin to “set” your priorities. This is the most important step! Once you have a customer expectation, you are ready to " align with your open-minded nature. Once you have a customer “open-mindedness toward your priorities, you will be able to “set" them more accurately. In other words, once you have set up a customer “belief” for your priorities, you will be able to align with it 

Step 3: Set Up a Belief Process

Once you have defined your priorities, it is helpful to begin to imagine that you are playing a game of chess. Your “positions” on the board will determine which pieces you will play, where these positions will fall, and how they will move the pieces around the board. By creating a “position diagram” for your priorities, you will be able to visually visually distinguish which pieces of your “board” will fall where and when. This will help you to “set” your priorities more accurately. Because your “positions” on the board will naturally reflect your “customer expectations” for your priorities, you will have a hard time “falling” in line with these. Additionally, you will likely have to “stand” on certain steps of the board to keep from falling into the trap of priorities. Thankfully, there are tools you can use to “check in ‘‘‘’‘’’” with your “positions ‘‘’’’’”“”““”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“”“
